>>> NO MAJORITY LEADER OF THE
>>> NO MAJORITY LEADER OF THE UNITED STATES SENATE HAS EVER
UNITED STATES SENATE HAS EVER HAD IT WORSE THAN MITCH
HAD IT WORSE THAN MITCH McCONNELL.
McCONNELL. EVEN THE MAJORITY LEADERS OF THE
EVEN THE MAJORITY LEADERS OF THE SENATE WHO HAD PRESIDENTS OF THE
SENATE WHO HAD PRESIDENTS OF THE OPPOSING PARTY, THEY WERE ALL
OPPOSING PARTY, THEY WERE ALL TREATED WITH MORE DIGNITY AND
TREATED WITH MORE DIGNITY AND RESPECT AND PROFESSIONALISM BY
RESPECT AND PROFESSIONALISM BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE OPPOSING
THE PRESIDENT OF THE OPPOSING PARTY THAN MITCH McCONNELL GETS
PARTY THAN MITCH McCONNELL GETS FROM DONALD TRUMP.
FROM DONALD TRUMP. NORMALLY, THE WORKING
NORMALLY, THE WORKING RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN A MAJORITY
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN A MAJORITY LEADER AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE
LEADER AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE LEADER’S OWN PARTY IS A HIGHLY
LEADER’S OWN PARTY IS A HIGHLY COOPERATIVE PARTNERSHIP IN WHICH
COOPERATIVE PARTNERSHIP IN WHICH THE MAJORITY LEADER HAS MOST OF
THE MAJORITY LEADER HAS MOST OF THE POWER WHEN IT COMES TO
THE POWER WHEN IT COMES TO LEGISLATION.
LEGISLATION. MAJORITY LEADERS HAVE TOLD
MAJORITY LEADERS HAVE TOLD PRESIDENTS OF THEIR OWN PARTY
PRESIDENTS OF THEIR OWN PARTY WHAT IS POSSIBLE AND WHAT IS NOT
WHAT IS POSSIBLE AND WHAT IS NOT POSSIBLE IN THE SENATE, AND
POSSIBLE IN THE SENATE, AND THOSE PRESIDENTS DID NOT TRY TO
THOSE PRESIDENTS DID NOT TRY TO DEFY THEM.
DEFY THEM. MITCH McCONNELL HAS THE
MITCH McCONNELL HAS THE DISTINCTION IN HISTORY OF BEING
DISTINCTION IN HISTORY OF BEING THE FIRST SENATE MAJORITY LEADER
THE FIRST SENATE MAJORITY LEADER ATTACKED BY A PRESIDENT OF THE
ATTACKED BY A PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES ON TWITTER.
UNITED STATES ON TWITTER. SIX MONTHS INTO THE TRUMP
SIX MONTHS INTO THE TRUMP PRESIDENCY, THE PRESIDENT
PRESIDENCY, THE PRESIDENT TWEETED, "CAN YOU BELIEVE THAT
TWEETED, "CAN YOU BELIEVE THAT MITCH McCONNELL, WHO HAS
MITCH McCONNELL, WHO HAS SCREAMED REPEAL AND REPLACE FOR
SCREAMED REPEAL AND REPLACE FOR SEVEN YEARS COULDN’T GET IT
SEVEN YEARS COULDN’T GET IT DONE.
DONE. TWO
TWO .
. >> TWO WEEKS LATER THE ONLY
>> TWO WEEKS LATER THE ONLY PROBLEM I HAVE WITH MITCH
PROBLEM I HAVE WITH MITCH McCONNELL AFTER REPEAL AND
McCONNELL AFTER REPEAL AND REPLACE FOR SEVEN YEARS, HE
REPLACE FOR SEVEN YEARS, HE FAILED.
FAILED. THAT SHOULD NEVER HAVE HAPPENED.
THAT SHOULD NEVER HAVE HAPPENED. OF COURSE, THAT TWEET WAS NOT
OF COURSE, THAT TWEET WAS NOT TRUE BECAUSE THAT WAS NOT THE
TRUE BECAUSE THAT WAS NOT THE ONLY PROBLEM THAT DONALD TRUMP
ONLY PROBLEM THAT DONALD TRUMP HAD WITH MITCH McCONNELL.
HAD WITH MITCH McCONNELL. TO BE CLEAR, NO PRESIDENT HAS
TO BE CLEAR, NO PRESIDENT HAS EVER DARED TO PUBLICLY ATTACK
EVER DARED TO PUBLICLY ATTACK THE MAJORITY LEADER OF THE
THE MAJORITY LEADER OF THE SENATE OF HIS OWN PARTY.
SENATE OF HIS OWN PARTY. MITCH McCONNELL HAS REPEATEDLY
MITCH McCONNELL HAS REPEATEDLY THOUGHT THAT HE HAS MADE A DEAL
THOUGHT THAT HE HAS MADE A DEAL WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP ONLY TO
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP ONLY TO DISCOVER THAT THE PRESIDENT’S
DISCOVER THAT THE PRESIDENT’S WORD MEANT NOTHING, THAT HE
WORD MEANT NOTHING, THAT HE CHANGED HIS MIND BUZZ OF
CHANGED HIS MIND BUZZ OF SOMETHING HE JUST SAW ON TV.
SOMETHING HE JUST SAW ON TV. THAT HAS NEVER HAPPENED TO ANY
THAT HAS NEVER HAPPENED TO ANY OTHER MAJORITY LEADER, EVEN WITH
OTHER MAJORITY LEADER, EVEN WITH PRESIDENTS OF THE OPPOSITE
PRESIDENTS OF THE OPPOSITE PARTY.
PARTY. MITCH McCONNELL TOLD PRESIDENT
MITCH McCONNELL TOLD PRESIDENT TRUMP NOT TO SHUT DOWN THE
TRUMP NOT TO SHUT DOWN THE GOVERNMENT.
GOVERNMENT. MITCH McCONNELL THEN WENT
MITCH McCONNELL THEN WENT PUBLIC, SAYING THERE WOULD NOT
PUBLIC, SAYING THERE WOULD NOT BE A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
BE A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN. >> I THINK A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
>> I THINK A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN IS NOT A GOOD OPTION.
IS NOT A GOOD OPTION. THAT’S MY VIEW.
THAT’S MY VIEW. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DON’T LIKE
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DON’T LIKE IT.
IT. WE’VE BEEN DOWN THIS PATH
WE’VE BEEN DOWN THIS PATH BEFORE, AND I DON’T BELIEVE
BEFORE, AND I DON’T BELIEVE WE’LL GO DOWN THIS PATH AGAIN.
WE’LL GO DOWN THIS PATH AGAIN. >> ARE YOU CONVINCED THAT WE
>> ARE YOU CONVINCED THAT WE WILL NOT SHUT DOWN?
WILL NOT SHUT DOWN? >> YEAH, I AM.
>> YEAH, I AM. >> NORMALLY, WHEN A SENATE
>> NORMALLY, WHEN A SENATE MAJORITY LEADER SAYS THAT, YOU
MAJORITY LEADER SAYS THAT, YOU CAN TAKE TO IT THE BANK.
CAN TAKE TO IT THE BANK. THAT’S IT.
THAT’S IT. THERE WON’T BE A SHUTDOWN.
THERE WON’T BE A SHUTDOWN. THE MAJORITY LEADER SAYS THERE
THE MAJORITY LEADER SAYS THERE WON’T BE A SHUTDOWN.
WON’T BE A SHUTDOWN. BUT MITCH McCONNELL’S WORDS MEAN
BUT MITCH McCONNELL’S WORDS MEAN NOTHING BECAUSE DONALD TRUMP
NOTHING BECAUSE DONALD TRUMP HUMILIATES HIM.
HUMILIATES HIM. DONALD TRUMP HUMILIATED MITCH
DONALD TRUMP HUMILIATED MITCH McCONNELL AND BECAME THE FIRST
McCONNELL AND BECAME THE FIRST PRESIDENT IN HISTORY TO SHUT
PRESIDENT IN HISTORY TO SHUT DOWN THE GOVERNMENT WHEN BOTH
DOWN THE GOVERNMENT WHEN BOTH HOUSES OF CONGRESS WERE
HOUSES OF CONGRESS WERE CONTROLLED BY HIS OWN PARTY.
CONTROLLED BY HIS OWN PARTY. MITCH McCONNELL KNEW THAT WAS
MITCH McCONNELL KNEW THAT WAS GOING TO END VERY BADLY FOR THE
GOING TO END VERY BADLY FOR THE REPUBLICANS AND DONALD TRUMP,
REPUBLICANS AND DONALD TRUMP, AND THERE WAS NOTHING THAT MITCH
AND THERE WAS NOTHING THAT MITCH McCONNELL COULD DO ABOUT IT.
McCONNELL COULD DO ABOUT IT. THERE HAS NEVER BEEN A MORE
THERE HAS NEVER BEEN A MORE POWERLESS MAJORITY LEADER OF THE
POWERLESS MAJORITY LEADER OF THE SENATE THAN MITCH McCONNELL IN
SENATE THAN MITCH McCONNELL IN HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH THE PRESIDENT.
PRESIDENT. ANY REPUBLICAN MAJORITY LEADER
ANY REPUBLICAN MAJORITY LEADER COULD HAVE RAMMED THROUGH THE
COULD HAVE RAMMED THROUGH THE JUDICIAL CONFIRMATIONS THAT
JUDICIAL CONFIRMATIONS THAT MITCH McCONNELL HAS RAMMED
MITCH McCONNELL HAS RAMMED THROUGH THE SENATE.
THROUGH THE SENATE. THAT’S THE EASY PART OF THE JOB.
THAT’S THE EASY PART OF THE JOB. EVERY OTHER PART OF MITCH
EVERY OTHER PART OF MITCH McCONNELL’S JOB IS MADE
McCONNELL’S JOB IS MADE IMPOSSIBLY DIFFICULT OR JUST
IMPOSSIBLY DIFFICULT OR JUST PLAIN IMPOSSIBLE BY THE WORST
PLAIN IMPOSSIBLE BY THE WORST AND MOST ERRATIC PRESIDENT IN
AND MOST ERRATIC PRESIDENT IN HISTORY.
HISTORY. WHY, WHY WOULD MITCH McCONNELL
WHY, WHY WOULD MITCH McCONNELL WANT MORE OF THIS, ESPECIALLY
WANT MORE OF THIS, ESPECIALLY WHEN KENTUCKY HAS NO GRATITUDE
WHEN KENTUCKY HAS NO GRATITUDE FOR THE JOB THAT HE’S BEEN DOING
FOR THE JOB THAT HE’S BEEN DOING IN THE SENATE.
IN THE SENATE. POLLING SHOWS THAT MITCH
POLLING SHOWS THAT MITCH McCONNELL HAS A 33% APPROVAL
McCONNELL HAS A 33% APPROVAL RATING IN KENTUCKY.
RATING IN KENTUCKY. THAT IS A DEADLY APPROVAL RATING
THAT IS A DEADLY APPROVAL RATING FOR AN INCUMBENT SENATOR.
FOR AN INCUMBENT SENATOR. 61% OF KENTUCKY VOTERS SAY THAT
61% OF KENTUCKY VOTERS SAY THAT MITCH McCONNELL HAS BEEN THERE
MITCH McCONNELL HAS BEEN THERE TOO LONG, AND IT’S TIME FOR
TOO LONG, AND IT’S TIME FOR SOMEONE NEW.
SOMEONE NEW. MITCH McCONNELL IS ALREADY THE
MITCH McCONNELL IS ALREADY THE LONGEST SERVING SENATOR IN
LONGEST SERVING SENATOR IN KENTUCKY HISTORY.
KENTUCKY HISTORY. KENTUCKY IS DONE WITH MITCH
KENTUCKY IS DONE WITH MITCH McCONNELL IF DEMOCRATS CAN FIND
McCONNELL IF DEMOCRATS CAN FIND THE RIGHT CANDIDATE TO RUN
THE RIGHT CANDIDATE TO RUN AGAINST HIM, LIKE POSSIBLY AMY
AGAINST HIM, LIKE POSSIBLY AMY McGRATH, WHO LOST A CLOSE
McGRATH, WHO LOST A CLOSE ELECTION FOR A KENTUCKY HOUSE
ELECTION FOR A KENTUCKY HOUSE SEAT LAST YEAR.
SEAT LAST YEAR. >> IN A FIGHTER JET, IT WAS
>> IN A FIGHTER JET, IT WAS NEVER JUST ABOUT ME.
NEVER JUST ABOUT ME. FOR EVERY ONE OF MY 89 COMBAT
FOR EVERY ONE OF MY 89 COMBAT MISSIONS, THERE WERE HUNDREDS OF
MISSIONS, THERE WERE HUNDREDS OF MARINES WHO WERE PART OF A TEAM.
MARINES WHO WERE PART OF A TEAM. I’M AMY McGRATH, AND CONGRESS
I’M AMY McGRATH, AND CONGRESS DOESN’T THINK THAT WAY.
DOESN’T THINK THAT WAY. TOO MANY THERE REFUSE TO WORK
TOO MANY THERE REFUSE TO WORK WITH THE OTHER SIDE.
WITH THE OTHER SIDE. THEY WOULD RATHER BLOCK ANY GOOD
THEY WOULD RATHER BLOCK ANY GOOD IDEA THAN LET THE OTHER SIDE GET
IDEA THAN LET THE OTHER SIDE GET CREDIT FOR ANYTHING.
CREDIT FOR ANYTHING. I’LL WILL WORK WITH ANYONE IF IT
I’LL WILL WORK WITH ANYONE IF IT MEANS WE CAN GET SOMETHING DONE.
MEANS WE CAN GET SOMETHING DONE. >> DOES MITCH McCONNELL WANT
>> DOES MITCH McCONNELL WANT THAT FIGHT?
THAT FIGHT? DOES MITCH McCONNELL REALLY WANT
DOES MITCH McCONNELL REALLY WANT TO SPEND THE NEXT YEAR AND A
TO SPEND THE NEXT YEAR AND A HALF FIGHTING OFF A STRONG
HALF FIGHTING OFF A STRONG DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE IN HIS OWN
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE IN HIS OWN REELECTION CAMPAIGN WHILE AT THE
REELECTION CAMPAIGN WHILE AT THE SAME TIME TRYING TO GET ENOUGH
SAME TIME TRYING TO GET ENOUGH REPUBLICAN SENATORS RE-ELECTED
REPUBLICAN SENATORS RE-ELECTED TO THE SENATE TO HOLD ON TO THE
TO THE SENATE TO HOLD ON TO THE MAJORITY?
MAJORITY? AND THEN THE BEST REWARD HE CAN
AND THEN THE BEST REWARD HE CAN GET, IF HE MAKES ALL OF THAT
GET, IF HE MAKES ALL OF THAT HAPPEN, IS ANOTHER FOUR YEARS OF
HAPPEN, IS ANOTHER FOUR YEARS OF UTTER HUMILIATION FROM DONALD
UTTER HUMILIATION FROM DONALD TRUMP, IF THE REPUBLICANS HOLD
TRUMP, IF THE REPUBLICANS HOLD ON TO THE PRESIDENCY.
ON TO THE PRESIDENCY. PAUL RYAN KNEW EARLY IN THE
PAUL RYAN KNEW EARLY IN THE TRUMP PRESIDENCY THAT DONALD
TRUMP PRESIDENCY THAT DONALD TRUMP WAS GOING TO DRIVE THE
TRUMP WAS GOING TO DRIVE THE REPUBLICANS OUT OF POWER IN THE
REPUBLICANS OUT OF POWER IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. PAUL RYAN KNEW LONG BEFORE HE
PAUL RYAN KNEW LONG BEFORE HE ANNOUNCED PUBLICLY THAT HE WAS
ANNOUNCED PUBLICLY THAT HE WAS NOT GOING TO RUN FOR REELECTION
NOT GOING TO RUN FOR REELECTION IN HIS DISTRICT.
IN HIS DISTRICT. PAUL RYAN DID NOT TAKE ONE STEP
PAUL RYAN DID NOT TAKE ONE STEP TO RUN FOR REELECTION IN HIS
TO RUN FOR REELECTION IN HIS DISTRICT, AND BY THE TIME HE
DISTRICT, AND BY THE TIME HE ANNOUNCED HE WASN’T GOING TO
ANNOUNCED HE WASN’T GOING TO RUN, THERE WAS NO SURPRISE AMONG
RUN, THERE WAS NO SURPRISE AMONG ANY OF THE PROFESSIONALS IN
ANY OF THE PROFESSIONALS IN WASHINGTON.
WASHINGTON. BECAUSE PAUL RYAN HADN’T DONE A
BECAUSE PAUL RYAN HADN’T DONE A SINGLE THING TO RUN FOR
SINGLE THING TO RUN FOR REELECTION.
REELECTION. DONALD TRUMP DROVE PAUL RYAN OUT
DONALD TRUMP DROVE PAUL RYAN OUT OF OFFICE AND LOST THE HOUSE OF
OF OFFICE AND LOST THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES FOR THE
REPRESENTATIVES FOR THE REPUBLICANS WHILE HE WAS AT IT.
REPUBLICANS WHILE HE WAS AT IT. WILL DONALD TRUMP DRIVE MITCH
WILL DONALD TRUMP DRIVE MITCH McCONNELL OUT OF OFFICE AND
McCONNELL OUT OF OFFICE AND POSSIBLY LOSE THE SENATE FOR
POSSIBLY LOSE THE SENATE FOR REPUBLICANS WHILE HE IS AT IT?
REPUBLICANS WHILE HE IS AT IT? OR WILL KENTUCKY VOTERS DRIVE
OR WILL KENTUCKY VOTERS DRIVE MITCH McCONNELL OUT OF OFFICE IF
MITCH McCONNELL OUT OF OFFICE IF HE DECIDES TO RUN AGAIN?
HE DECIDES TO RUN AGAIN? NEXT YEAR COULD BE THE LAST YEAR